Total worktime: ~2hrs

I first searched for some of the stuff you recommended.
My initial instinct was to do some kind of setup involving git
so it would be easy afterwards to revert to old configs that worked
or change individual files from other configs - all the benefits of
git etc.

I read up on git-annex and it seems pretty cool, but seeing as how
I will not be using massive files here I see no point in using it.

I generated a key with no passphrase on romeo and sent the public key
to dubhe. Afterwards I found out I could not ssh to dubhe from romeo
and tried to help kpacu and lz1irq in debugging it. It is unknown whether
I actually contributed something.

Later reading up on etckeeper I found out that it is (almost) exactly
the thing I wanted to do. The only thing it lacks for me is the ability
to add config files from different places, but that would require a lot more
work compared to what is done right now, as as it is right now it is just
a simple wrapper around git with some extras. As it already did what I needed
I decided (and my laziness forced me) against reinventing the wheel and
doing it myself.

After apt-get install-ing it I read up on it from it's manual page 
mostly and browsing the various scripts under /etc/etckeeper. I saw that
etckeeper.conf allowed you to autopush to a remote whenever you committed
which was even better as that meant that I would just need to setup a daily
commit. 

But wait there's more - I even found a "daily" script in /etc/etckeeper
which is exactly what I needed - daily commits. 
I still debate whether this is a good practice or not as ideally you 
would like all your commits to make sense, instead of just 
committing daily, but seeing as how this is the task I decided to let it stay.

I read up on how to setup a remote git repo and it was simple enough -
I just had to use git init --bare so that it would have no working tree
and be easier to work with as a remote. Afterwars all that was left
to add the the repo on dubhe as a remote through ssh and sure enough it worked
well enough in my tests.

Finally I etckeeper init'd /etc, added dubhe as a remote and changed
etckeeper.conf to autopush on commit. Committing this change itself
worked out fine and even autopushed. Cool, all that's left is to setup
crontab...

..or not. Because the etckeeper package already installed a script in
cron.daily which did exactly that - run the "daily" script which is located
in /etc/etckeeper/. Looking at man 1 crontab and man 5 crontab and later at
/etc/crontab I got some intuition on how it all chained together (together
with what I remember from the lecture on cron). 

I checked the sylog to confirm that this thing actually ran. 

I also manually ran /etc/etckeeper/daily to make sure it DOES actually work.

UPDATE:
I forgot to mention that this does indeed consume some more space (currently
5.5mb for the etc on romeo), but I find this to be nothing at all considering
modern drives.
