Total worktime: <24hrs

I installed nginx through apt. Opened up default config files and looked
around them for a bit. Got the general idea - you have available sites and
enabled sites. Learned about the syntax from looking at the base http module
official nginx documentation and the default website. Played around with it a
bit to make it also autoindex folders and show a different index, worked out
with almost no trouble. 

Afterwards I opened up the README.md for acme-tiny and
just followed the instructions there to get my certificate and enable https. I
disabled tls1.0 and tls1.1 at this point because they are no good anymore.
Everything worked out fine, I got an A on sslabs and after enabling HSTS
(with a single line on the https config) and setting http to always redirect
to https I managed to get an A+ on sslabs.

I couldn't decide on whether to use exim or postfix for a while and I had
decided on exim, because most of the comments I saw were
"exim is more flexible, but postfix is easier to conf.". This fit with my
goals because I wanted to use the more flexible one in the future. I searched
for guides and documentation and found a book by o'rly 
("The Exim Mail Transfer Agent"), which had a good general description of how
mail works in general, which was quite useful, because I had skipped the GNUS
lecture which explained just that. I read through that.

I was later informed we *had* to use postfix, so I redownloaded postfix in the
end. Looking around the basic config guide on the website and the default
config that came with the apt package I found that there was almost no work
for me to do. However I could not use "mail" to send mail for some reason, or
rather postfix was not forming my mail correctly (it was adding "romeo"
instead of "romeo.fmi.fail"). After two hours of inspection I found that the
variable "myhostname" does NOT actually hold your hostname by convention, but
instead it holds your FQDN. Wow. After "fixing" this I was able to send mail
normally. I also checked /etc/aliases. Turns out I can just add
"root: godzbanebane@gmail.com" and regenerate the db (postalias), so it
redirects mail to somewhere else.

I searched for guides to setting up dovecot + postfix and found plenty. I
chose to use this one because it looked rather good and well structured with
nothing missing -
https://linode.com/docs/email/postfix/email-with-postfix-dovecot-and-mysql/

From here on out it was pretty much following instructions until I hit some
problems at the end. It was good atleast that I decided to do it in the end
because I finally got *some* experience with an actual DB. Pretty much learned
a bit of SQL on the go, and understood that the way postfix, dovecot and the
db interface is actually pretty direct, in other words there is no middleware
between them for ease of use (as it is rather easy for a small task such as
this already). I directly typed in my SQL queries without using any interface
for the task.

At first I thought that the user for the database had to be something local
(I extrapolated this from the fact that they used mailuser@127.0.0.1, making
me think that this is some local user), but later I found out that this is not
necessary and it is simply a name.

Some instruction following later.. (adding tables, adding postfix config to
delegate auth and local delivery to dovecot and also to add files from which to 
read db config)

I hit upon the problem that I had used 'root' and for some reason it would not work, 
so I just tried with student (still thinking at this point that it needed to
be a local user). This proved to work.

I also modified master.cf but I did not read up on what exactly each of the
services do (I uncommented "submission" and "smtp").

On to dovecot. I installed dovecot-base from debian and later I found I
actually needed some more stuff like dovecot-postfix, dovecot-lmtp, and some
others I forgot.

A *lot* of instruction following later... (this time I knew what I was doing
less than with postfix, as I had actually read the postfix syntax, basic
config and documentation for different options).

I disabled pop3 as it isn't required for the task and afaik it's not very
cool. I also disabled lmtp without thinking much at this point which I 
had to come back and reenable.

I changed dovecot's default mbox to maildir, as I read up on both and maildir
seems way more sane and set the mail folder to
"/var/mail/vhosts/%d/%n"

 Afterwards I had to create the folder, take care of permissions, create a
 special user which would only be used for dovecot virtual mails, take care of
 ownership.

 I went on to modify the 10-auth configuration file, disabling plaintext auth
 and enabling mysql auth, modifying the auth-sql file correspondingly. Had to
 add the configuration for the db (db name, user, password, etc).

 I enabled SHA512-CRYPT which I am not sure what it is an implementation of.

Going onto the master conf, I disabled unencrypted imap by setting it's port
to 0 and uncommented the configuration for imaps. I added some
"unix_listeners" which I am unsure as to what they are unfortunately.

After being done with instruction following I backed up the default symlinks
dovecot.pem and dovecot.key (why are they both in private when only
dovecot.key is supposed to be private??) and linked them instead to the
certificates I had generated in step 0. I also made ssl required for dovecot
by modifying the ssl config file.

At this point I found out about the 2 missing dovecot packages I mentioned
earlier, taking me some time to figure it out and installed them.

At this point I remembered that MX records are a thing and went on to add
them. I also found a very weird "bug" (??) with gmail while testing wherein
the following would happen -

I try to send a mail to zeus@smetana.nestum.net and it would reply with no
domain found. Meanwhile digging for mx records worked just fine. If I wait
5-10 minutes and resend again it would work this time. And then periodically,
some time later it would break again. This is obviously some error with
caching, but I cannot explain it to myself, as sending from abv had no such
problems, and asking friends to mail to me also encountered no such problems.

I opened up thunderbird and tried connecting with the config mentioned in
not_working.txt
and tried various stuff to make it work, but whatever I did I somehow could
not manage to send mail through thunderbird. The IMAP side of things worked
fine, I could check and read mail, etc. Tested various other stuff, and could
not manage to figure it out. My thunderbird was connecting but not sending
anything (according to the log which for some reason did not have the
following information). After tcpdump-ing I found out that my server was
actually responding with
500 bad utf8 syntax 
and
500 bad syntax

I could not figure it out so I asked 81247 to try logging in with his
thunderbird to rule out any issues with mine. He entered just *some* of the
settings (ports I think) and it could autoconfigure after that selecting 
"STARTTLS" instead of "SSL/TLS" as the encryption method for SMTP.
I previously thought (only following the guide which I linked) that I did not have 
"STARTTLS" support, but apparently this is the default for dovecot, as this
config (which I will attach as "working_config.txt") did work for him and also
for me. I could now both send and receive mail fine.

In the meantime I got a comment from 81247 "ffs, add an spf record, it takes
like 20 seconds", so I proceeded to quickly read up on spf and then proceed to
add an spf record that allowed only mail from the MX's responsible for
smetana.nestum.net
I unfortunately did not have time to add SPF checking for my server, but
atleast read up on it to find that you would usually add some perl script to
do it for you.

All that was left was to check if my SMTP was actually encrypted. I initally
just checked gmail which said that "the connection is using TLS encryption",
but I am unsure as to what this means, so instead I tcpdumped on the ports
that are supposedly used for tls while sending a mail both from gmail to me
and from me to gmail (it was actually abv the second time, as gmail was having
the stupid DNS issues again). Both times I found the exchange between me and
the server (in the first case it saying it has TLS, and me sending a starttls,
after which the connection was encrypted and same thing, but the other way
around the second time).

I will also attach a db.txt file with some stuff concerning the db.

I have no time left for the rest.
